- Is it a girl?
- Yes.
Show me its arm.
- She bears the mark.
- No!
The omen is true.
I must tell my mother.
- Help me!
- I can't.
They're going to kill her.
Please! Please!
Oh. thank you. Ethna. Thank you.
Stand aside for Queen Bavmorda!
You cannot stop the prophecy!
This child will have no power over me.
Start the ritual.
- No. No!
- Where's the baby?
- The midwife.
- Find that baby. Sorsha.
Use the dogs.
Bring her back to me alive!
Your reign of terror
is at an end!
She will come back.
and she will finish you!
- Silence. wench. - My baby
will finish you! - Kill her.
Dada! Dada!
- Dada! Dada!
- Whoa! Whoa!
Dada! Dada!
We found something in the river.
I can't run off and play
with you now. Ranon.
- I've got work to do.
- You gotta come. Hurry!
Come on.
Don't go near it.
We don't know where it's been.
But. Dada. it's a baby.
- It's not like us.
- No. It's not a Nelwyn.
- It looks like a Daikini baby.
- What's a Daikini?
Daikinis are big.
Giants who live far away.
Oh. she's so cute.
- Can't we keep it. Dada?
- No!
We'll push it downstream and forget
we ever saw it. Come on.
Ufgood! Willow Ufgood!
Shhh! It's the prefect.
That's all I need.
Keep it quiet.
Don't touch it.
Mr Burglekutt. my husband
hasn't stolen anything!
Baaa!
Ufgood. you still haven't paid
your debts to me.
Where did you get these seeds?
Well. maybe I used magic.
You're no sorcerer. Ufgood.
You're a clown.
I sell the planting seeds around here.
Now tell me where you got them.
My family's been gathering them
in the forest since last fall.
There's no law against that.
Willow. you didn't leave them
alone by the river?
Magic?
You'll need magic...
if you expect to get your planting
done before the rains start.
I will have this land. Ufgood.
And you're gonna end up
working in the mines.
Baaa-
Oh. you're lovely.
Yes. you are.
Kiaya!
Oh. Willow!
- Good girl. Good girl.
- Under no condition whatsoever...
is anyone in this family
to fall in love with that baby.
Yes. you are. Come on. Mims.
Come on. Come on.
There we are. Come on.
Hey. I will not be ignored!
Mims? Ranon?
You're gonna be all clean.
Willow. do you think we should
take her to the village council?
No. No.
They'll think it's a bad omen.
There'll be a flood or a drought.
and everyone will blame me for it.
"Willow Ufgood brought around
that Daikini. didn't he?"
"That's right. And he's that
lousy farmer too. Let's get him!"
- Willow. calm down.
- Calm down?
Kiaya. tomorrow's my big day.
Love. the High Aldwin hasn't
picked a new apprentice in years.
Tomorrow's gonna be different.
I just know he's gonna pick me.
- Here. Hold her.
- Hey. no. I don't want her. Kiaya.
- Hold her while I get some milk.
- Oh. no. no. Oh.
Dada. she likes you.
Bye.
Come on. kids. Let's go.
I will now magically join the rings!
Whoa-ah!
Thank you. son.
If you're easily shocked.
please turn away.
Give me a ripe one. Good.
And now. for my final amazing feat.
I will make this entire pig disappear!
- Mims. see?
- Please. watch very closely.
Wuppity bairn. deru. deru!
- Well-
- What happened to your pig?
No!
Hey. come here. you!
I seen enough.
Attention!
The High Aldwin...
- will now make his choice for his new apprentice!
- You'll be all right.
Bring forth the hopefuls.
- Good luck.
- Good luck. Dada.
Willow Ufgood. a hopeful?
How did he get picked?
Is this a joke?
Willow?
Magic is the bloodstream
of the universe!
Forget all you know...
or think you know.
All that you require
is your intuition.
Now. the power
to control the world...
is in which finger?
No apprentice this year!
- Where's Mims?
- I don't know. She was right here!
Take Ranon in there. quick!
Mims!
- Mims!
- Dada-
I'm scared. Dada!
Come on!
Vohnkar!
- Check to make sure.
- It's dead!
Dada! Dada!
It was looking
for somebody's baby!
- Mommy.
- Kiaya!
Kiaya!
I'm here.
Oh. Kiaya.
We can't keep the baby. Kiaya.
We have to take her
to the village council.
Silence! One beast we can kill.
but there may be more.
And you can be assured
that they won't give up...
until they find what
they're looking for!
- It's a sign!
- Who's to blame for this?
We must find the culprit
and throw him in the pit!
In the pit! In the pit!
- In the pit! In the pit!
- Willow.
Willow Ufgood.
Come forward.
My children found this baby
alone by the river. High Aldwin.
A Daikini child.
That's what the beasts want.
Let's give it back to them!
Yeah!
- They'll kill her! You can't!
- It isn't one of us.
This child is special!
This child must be taken beyond
the boundaries of our village.
All the way across
the great river...
to the Daikini crossroads.
- Well. who'll do that?
- It seems only fair...
that the man to take
this baby to the crossroads...
be the very man who
plucked it out of the river.
I nominate Willow Ufgood.
No!
I will consult the bones!
The bones tell me... nothing.
Do you have any love
for this child?
Yes. Yes. I do.
The bones have spoken!
Willow Ufgood. the safety
of this village depends upon you.
- Praise the bones!
But you will need help.
Who has the courage to protect
our brave fellow on his journey?
- I'll go with him.
- Ah. Meegosh.
- Excellent choice.
- I'll go!
Vohnkar! Vohnkar!
No! Not Vohnkar!
He's the best warrior in the village!
We need him here!
Vohnkar. step back!
All this expedition needs
is a leader.
And according to the bones...
that leader is...
you. Burglekutt!
Vohnkar!
- What's your problem. son?
- How do you mean?
When I held up my fingers.
what was your first impulse?
- Well. it was stupid.
- Just tell me.
- To pick my own finger.
- Aha! That was the correct answer.
You lack faith in yourself.
More than anyone in the village.
you have the potential
to be a great sorcerer.
Now. when you're out there.
listen to your own heart.
- These will protect you. They're magic!
- Acorns?
Anything you throw them at
turns to stone.
You have much to learn.
young Ufgood.
- Are you scared. Dada?
- No!
Even with fairies in the woods...
that'll put you to sleep
for a hundred years?
- Doesn't bother me.
- Brownies?
- Dragons?
- Trolls?
Trolls that'll skin you alive
and take your face off?
Ranon!
You know I hate trolls.
I can be your guard
and carry your spear.
Me too. Me too. Dada.
What a lucky father I am. I wish
I could take you bobbins with me.
Goodbye. Dada.
Go play!
Go on.
We've never been apart.
I miss you already.
Don't worry. Kiaya.
I'll be fine.
I'll be back
before you know it.
Well. remember
to keep her warm.
And... here.
This will bring you luck.
Good brave people!
The outer world is
no place for a Nelwyn.
Give the baby
to the first Daikini you see.
then hurry home.
Tuatha...
lokwathrak... tuatha!
Go in the direction the bird is flying!
It's going back to the village!
Ignore the bird.
Follow the river.
Move out!
- Hold on. Meegosh.
- What's wrong?
- We have to stop.
- Stop? Why?
The baby's sick.
She's not sick!
Let me see.
Uhaghh!
Take her! Take her!
She'll be fine
once she gets some rest.
Clean me up.
I didn't ask you
to bring me a dead nursemaid.
- Sorsha. you're useless!
- I'm backtracking the nursemaid's trail.
I'll find where she hid the baby.
Ah. General Kael. at last.
My queen. I have destroyed
the castle at Galladoorn.
Well done. But now I have
another task for you.
Help my daughter to find
that tiny. helpless baby...
that continues
somehow to elude her.
The baby of the prophecy?
- The one that would destroy you?
- I need that baby alive.
I must perform
the ritual that will exile...
the child's spirit into oblivion.
- Find her!
- I don't need his help. Mother.
You'll do as I say. child.
I read the signs.
One day. I fear.
your daughter will betray you.
I trust her loyalty
more than I trust yours.
Move!
It's an ambush.
Come on. Move!
Come on!
The Nelwyns have got the baby.
We've searched the village.
But a group of them
are on the road somewhere.
They couldn't have gone far!
Widen the search
and report to Sorsha!
Come. We'll keep to the woods.
That's it!
It's the crossroads!
Keep this fire high.
We don't know what's out there.
What was that?
Get the spears!
Uhh. Uhh.
Give me some water. peck.
or you die.
Do you understand?
- Water.
- Yeah.
Hurry up!
Get me some water.
you measly little pecks.
It's a Daikini.
We're in luck.
We can't give her to him!
- Somebody put him there for a reason.
- We've got to get rid of her.
- Those soldiers are after us.
- Shhh.
He's looking right at us.
We've got to give
that baby to somebody.
I'm somebody.
Let me out of here. I'll take care
of the baby.
- I trust him completely.
- But he tried to strangle me.
- I want to go home!
- No. Burglekutt!
- We should wait!
- Are you challenging my authority?
As far as this baby
is concerned... yes.
Don't listen to him. Burglekutt.
Fine. You stay here alone.
but we're going.
That's a bad idea.
Very bad.
- Dangerous out there.
- Get the gear. men.
- Vohnkar-
- It's not his decision!
Burglekutt. you're troll dung.
Don't let him
talk to you that way.
Listen here. runt.
While you're wasting time here.
your fields aren't getting planted.
- Think about it!
- Burglekutt. I'm gonna-
You're gonna what?
Someday. Burglekutt.
Someday.
Vohnkar. let's go!
Meegosh. are you coming?
- I'm staying.
- Come on. men.
Burglekutt. let me out of here.
I'll take care of the baby. I swear.
Just let me out of here.
Please!
Vohnkar. let me borrow that spear...
just for a minute.
Well. at least get me some water!
Burglekutt. don't leave me alone
with these two!
What'll we do now. Willow?
Well. that was really stupid. peck.
- Don't call me a peck.
- Oh. I'm sorry... peck.
- Peck. peck. peck. peck.
- You be careful!
I'm a powerful sorcerer.
See this acorn?
- I'll throw it. and turn you to stone.
- Whoo-
I'm really scared.
No. don't! Don't!
There's a peck here
with an acorn pointed at me!
Oh. I wouldn't want to waste it.
Ha!
Peck. peck. peck. peck.
peck. peck. peck.
peck. peck!
What was that?
Mornin'. boys.
Rough night last night.
wasn't it?
I don't think I introduced
myself yesterday.
My name is Madmartigan.
and you are. uh-
No. Meegosh.
Don't go near him.
- He's dangerous.
- I am not.
Good.
Stop! Wait!
Whoa!
- What's going on?
- Smells like a battle.
I suppose you're a warrior.
I am the greatest swordsman
that ever lived.
Hmph.
Say. uh- Could I have
some of that water?
I don't know why I try.
I guess I am gonna die here.
Who cares?
- Here.
- Thanks. friend. Oh!
What's that?
I'd say
two or three hundred horses.
five or six wagons.
and about a thousand fools.
- Thank you. Ohh-
- Come on. Meegosh.
It's gonna be
all right. little bobbin.
Everything's gonna be all right.
- Excuse me. sir.
- Out of the way. peck!
Uh. pardon me.
Uh-
Excuse me. sir. We found one
of your babies in our village.
Will you please take care of her?
We're going into battle. little ones.
Find a woman to take care of her.
They thought you were
a woman. Airk.
Well-
Madmartigan!
What did you do this time?
Nothing you wouldn't have done.
I always knew
you'd end up in a crow's cage.
At least I'm not
down there herding sheep.
What are you doing this far north?
The Nockmaar army
destroyed Galladoorn.
The castle?
Bavmorda's troops are
crushing everything in sight.
Come on.
Let me out of here. Airk.
Give me a sword.
I'll win this war for you.
Madmartigan-
I still serve Galladoorn.
You serve no one.
Remember?
Sit in your coffin and rot.
Wait. Airk. You need me!
I'll be around
long after you're dead!
When I get out of here.
I'm gonna cut your head off...
and stick it on a pig pole!
I miss Kiaya and the bobbins.
We're running out of food.
Nobody's gonna
take care of that baby.
You know why?
Nobody cares.
Except me.
You want to go back to your families.
I want out of this cage.
Let me take care of that baby.
I'll look after her like she was my own.
I believe he would. Willow.
He doesn't know
anything about babies.
Right. But I know
a lot of women who do.
If I had somebody in my life.
a little daughter. perhaps.
I might have a reason
to go on living.
You can't leave me
in here to die.
Not when all I want
to do is protect her.
I feel better!
- You've done the right thing!
- Okay. All right. All right.
- You gotta promise to feed her.
- Come to Daddy. little darlin'.
- And keep her clean.
- Absolutely.
Hee. hee. hee!
Wheee!
She likes me.
Here are her changing rags.
- And her milk bladder.
- Any milk in there?
- It's for her!
- I wouldn't steal from a baby.
You worry too much. peck.
- It's Willow.
- I mean Willow.
Now listen. boys- Willow.
You've done the right thing.
Now I want you to get home
and bring your crop in.
Goodbye. little one.
Please. take good care of her.
I give you my word of honour!
- Meegosh. slow down!
- Oh. come on!
If we hurry. we can be home by
tomorrow morning. We'll be heroes.
- Do you really think so?
- Sure.
"Look. there's Willow and Meegosh.
The heroes have come home. "
"Welcome back. boys.
You deserve medals!"
Yeah. Medals.
Meegosh-
- Did we do the right thing?
- Absolutely.
There's nothing to worry about.
Hyah! Ha ha!
I stole the baby! I stole the baby!
- Hyah!
- That's my baby!
Stop! Wait! Come back!
Left. you stupid bird.
Left! Ha ha!
Ow!
Brownies!
Let's get out of here!
- Come on. Meegosh!
- Ow!
We'll outrun 'em!
Hey. ugly. wake up!
Huh?
Stand your ground. He's our prisoner.
Meegosh.
where's the baby?
Bring the Nelwyns to me.
All right. you heard her!
- What's going on?
- Shut up. or I'll break your nose.
You are mine to toy with.
Forward!
Gimme the rope.
Where-
Where...
did you get that baby?
I stole it from a stupid Daikini.
Franjean. release the Nelwyns.
- And stop pestering them.
- Uh-oh.
Yaah!
Welcome to my kingdom.
- I'm happy to meet you. Willow Ufgood.
- How do you know my name?
Elora Danan told me.
Elora?
Elora. Willow is here.
- But she's just a baby.
- She's very special.
My Brownies have been searching for her
ever since we heard she was born.
Elora Danan has chosen you
to be her guardian.
- Me?
- Yes. She likes you.
And Elora Danan knows
you have the courage to help us.
Take my wand
to the sorceress. Fin Raziel.
She will guide you and Elora Danan
to the kingdom of Tir Asleen.
where a good king and queen
will look after her.
You need a warrior
for a job like this. I'm a nobody.
Elora. you don't want me.
Tell her.
I'm short. even for a Nelwyn.
Hello?
Elora Danan must survive!
She must fulfil her destiny and bring
about the downfall of Queen Bavmorda.
whose powers are growing
like an evil plague.
Unless she is stopped.
Bavmorda will control the lives...
of your village.
your children- everyone.
All creatures of good heart
need your help. Willow.
The choice is yours.
- Hey. Meegosh. Wake up.
- Huh?
- It's time to go home.
- Home?
Listen. Meegosh.
Tell Kiaya I love her.
- And I think of her every day.
- Willow-
And tell her I'm not going to let
anything happen to the baby.
Are you sure you know
what you're doing?
I hope so.
Listen. be careful.
- I know the way. Franjean.
- You always think you know the way.
I am the leader!
- How long will it take to find Raziel?
- Not long.
She's been exiled to an island
just over those hills.
- She's what?
- Exiled...
by the evil Queen Bavmorda.
Rool. you fool. He does not need
to know everything.
- I didn't tell him everything.
- You told him enough.
- You mentioned the island. the queen.
- Wait a minute.
So?
What do you mean? What are
you saying. mysterious island?
Don't play with that wand.
Cherlindrea told you
it holds vast powers.
Only a great sorcerer can use it.
not a stupid peck like you.
- This way.
- No. No. No. I don't think so.
- All right. then this way.
- Eh. nope.
- This way.
- This way?
- That's what I said.
- This way.
- You know where you're going?
- Of course.
With us as your guides.
no harm will befall you.
Take it up!
- We are not going in there!
- But Elora needs fresh milk.
- And we are drenched.
- You are not in command. shorty. I am!
You hear me? Whoa!
Excuse me? Excuse me.
Could you spare some milk
for this poor. hungry baby?
- Get out of here. peck!
- Get outta here or we'll cook ya!
Ooh. look at her!
I could use
a love potion on her!
Franjean! Hey! Give me that
dust of broken heart.
Come on! Give it to me!
It's very dangerous.
It belongs to the fairies!
Hey. quiet!
You want to get us killed?
Oh. Rool! Always playing
with those fairy love potions.
You are so beautiful!
Your eyes! Your whiskers!
- I have to kiss you!
- Rool!
That dust of broken heart!
Beer!
These people are crazy!
This could be bad!
Hurry! Hurry!
My husband's coming!
If he catches you here.
he'll kill us both!
- How do I look?
- Not you!
Where the hell
did you come from?
I knew I shouldn't
have trusted you.
Don't I know you?
I stole the baby from you. Daikini.
- while you were taking a pee-pee!
- Cover your face!
- You are crawling with Brownies.
- I hate Brownies!
Whoa!
- Where is he? Where?
- Hello. dear.
There's nobody here but
me and. uh. my. uh-
- I'll kill him!
- ... my cousin. Hilda.
- Hilda?
- Hilda.
- Oh. Hilda!
- This is my husband. Llug.
- Mm. Big husband.
- Yes.
How do you do?
Hilda! Ooh.
Come on. girly.
Don't be shy.
Hey! Give her back!
- Pecks make terrible nursemaids.
- Nursemaid?
They get too excited.
Excuse me!
Are we having a party?
- Huh?
- Hey. hey. hey. hey!
Stop. please. Ooh.
Come on.
Fight like a man!
Want to breed?
Tempting. but no.
Thank you.
Time to leave.
- Bye. Hilda!
- Take them out.
Hey! Come along!
- Careful. you lout!
- Move along!
Gather up all these babies.
That baby over there.
Let me see its arm.
That's not the one.
You! Are you the mother
of that child?
- Yes. Yes. I am.
- Let me see it.
No! Don't let her!
Aah!
I gave you an order. woman!
You-
You're... beautiful.
- And you're very strong.
- Thank you.
You're no woman!
Now. honey. take it easy.
- Gentlemen.
- Not a woman?
Meet Llug.
- After them!
- Out of the way!
To the horses!
Hyah!
Madmartigan!
Madmartigan! Wait!
He's not a woman!
Don't let them get away!
Madmartigan. stop!
Madmartigan.
I'm warning you-
- Ow!
- Prepare to die!
Madmartigan!
Stop!
No... more... beer.
Franjean. help me!
- Rool!
- Help!
Rool! Rool.
- Rool! What are you doing?
- Help me!
- Come on. I am.
- Pull me in.
Yeah. pull!
Whoa!
Rool. this isn't funny!
Help me cut the rope!
Who-oa!
Willow. stay down!
Whoa!
Have you gone crazy?
You can't chase around
with Elora like this.
- We're getting off!
- Hyah!
Hold on! Hyah!
Whoa! Whoa!
Oh. Rool.
Now we stop. peck.
Stupid Daikini.
Ask him to stop the wagon.
Madmartigan! You never. ever
drive that fast with an infant!
I just saved that infant's life!
Hah! Hah!
Gather your wits. Come on.
- Don't worry about me.
- Come on!
Get down!
Uh. where am I?
Oh!
Rool. you fool.
get out of the road!
- Ah. Franjean!
- You better clear out. Willow.
Before those troops come back.
- Ah. my head!
- We don't need him. Elora.
Madmartigan. wait!
Go home. Willow!
It's a dangerous world.
Yeah. and that's why
we need your help.
My help?
What do you need my help for?
You're a sorcerer!
You're a great warrior.
and a swordsman.
And you're ten times
bigger than I am. stupid!
Are you trying to make my life
more difficult than it already is?
Hurry! Big dogs!
Look. I'm sorry I got angry.
We wouldn't have
escaped without you.
Well. don't expect me
to help you again.
Good! Then we go that way!
To the lake!
That way.
You are drunk. and when
you are drunk. you forget that...
- I am in charge!
- You are in charge.
Fine.
Then which way do we go?
That way!
Oh. no!
That's the way I'm going.
All right. all right.
You can follow me as far as the lake.
But that's it!
- You're not going south. are you?
- No. just as far as the lake.
Good. Mumbo. Jumbo. I am hungry.
Go and get me some eggs or something.
- We are not afraid of you!
- Now!
Kael. have you found the child?
The search goes on. my queen.
Why. with my powers.
with the strength
of my great army.
can you not find
one little child?
We look even now.
It won't be long.
Find the child.
Find the child!
Time is running out.
- Good night.
- She is kinda cute.
When she's quiet.
She's really a princess.
Really?
And you're a great sorcerer.
And I'm the king of Kashmir.
Go to sleep. Willow.
Good night. Madmartigan.
Rats! Big rats! Rats!
Uh- Uh! Oh!
Rats! Ra-
Oh. Rool. you and that
stupid rat dream! Ha!
Tuatha...
Lawkathok...
Tuatha!
Huh?
Willow?
Oh.
There you are.
Madmartigan!
'Night. Willow.
This way! This way!
What are you doing?
I found some black root.
She loves it!
Black root? I am
the father of two children.
and you never. ever
give a baby black root.
Well. my mother
raised us on black root.
It's good for ya!
It puts hair on your chest.
- Doesn't it. Sticks?
- Her name is not Sticks.
She's Elora Danan.
the future empress of Tir Asleen.
And the last thing she's gonna
want is a hairy chest!
Did you see what he did?
He stole our black root. I'll get
some more. Don't worry about it.
There it is! The island!
We made it.
We have led you to
the island of the sorceress Fin Raziel.
- We'll get a boat in that village.
- A big boat.
Well. looks like
I got you here.
You!
What did you do?
All you did was hang around
and eat our eggs! Huh?
I found a boat.
We're all set.
Good. Take these two lizards
out and drown them.
- Who are you calling lizards?
- Heh? Heh?
Your mother was a lizard!
Goodbye. Sticks.
If you really are a princess.
take care of him.
- Madmartigan!
- What?
Thanks.
Hey! Aah!
- Keep walkin'. hero!
- Don't even turn around!
It's all right. Elora.
Go to sleep.
Nobody'll find you here. I'll be back
with Fin Raziel very soon.
We will guard her
with our meagre lives.
Raziel!
Fin Raziel!
I have to talk to you. please!
Raziel!